J senior political analyst Marwan bishar
Marwan I'm I'm just really curious to
hear what you thought of that um that
John Kirby press conference because
Kirby's now clearly I think we can say
fairly is playing defense with all these
questions that were being uh asked of
him on what the US thinks of what Israel
has done and and how can they keep
supporting this you know and he's he's
he's dodging bullets out
there absolutely I think uh listening to
uh Kirby and uh blinkin today from Paris
uh defending the Israeli war crimes in
Gaza gives you a good sense of how far
American officials need to go out of
their way in order to justify or defend
Israeli actions that are indefensible in
Gaza so much so that you can see that
the journalists who are asking the
questions are so frustrated because in
the end of the day right 6 months later
33 th000 have been killed mostly women
and children and Mr Kirby is still um
you know outraged by questions about
violations of laws of war and saying
well we still have to wait and see wait
wait and see what exactly right he he
was asked specifically has Israel
violated any laws of law have they
committed any war crimes in the last
five six months um he was pretty
defensive about that absolutely and I
think here in this question right and um
I'll be curious what our viewers around
the world are thinking or the way
they're thinking about this because I
can see that much of the debate already
of the past few hours was about whether
it's deliberate or not deliberate so
what do you think Ser you think it's
worse if it was deliberate or not
deliberate because I think it's worse if
it's not
deliberate because if it's deliberate it
could be a general it could be a colonal
an engineer who's mining these drones or
a pilot who's mining an airplane or what
have you that decided to take an action
deliberately against the the aid Convoy
it could be high ranking official in the
military but the way things have been
happening in
Gaza if they're not deliberate they are
certainly
systematic and that's much worse than
one individual or several individual
deliberate actions you're you're saying
essentially if this was not deliberate
striking this Aid Convoy it kind of
means that the killing has gone on
autopilot absolutely because I'll give
you a few examples take for example the
most Stark example of all
examples when the Israeli soldiers shot
at Israeli captives holding White Flags
was that deliberate well certainly that
was not deliberate and I'm sure the
Israeli soldiers would not want to shoot
at Israeli citizens held captives in
Gaza holding White Flags but they are
clearly trigger happy or let me be a bit
more objective Tri trigger ready to
shoot look at the look at what happened
to asifa not just the last few days or a
couple of weeks look at what happened to
a hospital look at happened to all the
hospitals was that deliberate or not
deliberate look at the death the killing
of 20 plus thousand children and women
was that deliberate or not so delate
yeah exactly building on your point if
uh since here we have the Israeli Prime
Minister saying essentially this was not
intentional it was a mistake mistakes
happen what does that then mean about
the 32,000 Palestinians who were killed
and whether or not that was intentional
and and there's a bit there's a bit of a
snod and HPA in his tone
his dismissal oh oh you know it's what's
tragic we will look into it and of
course secretary of state blinkin says
we demand that Israel does a
Swift and impartial impartial how would
Israel want to do an impartial of its
own crimes in Gaza how do you expect an
Israeli Army that is mered in the death
and destruction of um tens of thousands
displacements of a million or two to be
impartial about something like that but
there there's a pattern here and we
spoke about it the past six months the
killing of onor how many people of onor
have been killed already some 100 plus
right of onor so there's a lot of I
think we're closer to 200 but I don't
have the exact number so there's a lot
of Aid workers have been killed in Gaza
right so we we agree about that how many
journalists have been killed in Gaza how
many of our colleagues have been killed
how many members of their families have
been killed okay so it's not deliberate
right we can add to that health workers
Aid workers obviously uh children
hospitals Engineers academic nurses but
also all the civilian infrastructures
what about the five or six or seven I
don't know the number of universities
that they were all destroyed down to the
you know to Rubble so yes I understand
the debate and this is all the questions
about was this deliberate or not delate
okay we will investigate My worry is
that it's not deliberate not my worry
almost my you know my my analysis is
that even if it's not deliberate that's
just as bad if not worse because the
fact is that that the the Central
Kitchen have coordinated their
coordinates with the Israeli military
the Israeli military know where they are
so if they didn't do it deliberately
that means they are so trigger ready to
shoot at anything that moves in Gaza
that's why when we were talking about
them shooting at the Israeli civilians
with white flags we said what about all
the Palestinians that we were white
flags and they killed them right so
there there's a there's a
systematic uh uh um you know uh violence
that is that is being carried by the
Israelis there's a systematic use of
force trigger happy trigger ready to use
there's anger there's frustration and
there is Revenge on the part of the
Israeli army they are still angry 6
months later about what happened October
7th they are not acting like a
professional Army they're acting like a
vengeful tribe is very hateful of the
people in Gaza and they are echoing what
the president said almost six months ago
when he said there are no Innocents in
Gaza that definitely includes the aid
workers because
look the attack on onwa right the the
the the UN organization that has been
for decades helping Palestinians and the
largest Aid organization in the strip
and if I may remind our viewers around
the probably no one has mentioned that
the past just you need to study the
history of this conflict and and of
Ona onova started its operations after
1948 serving Palestinians and Israelis
until 1952 Israelis were helped by onor
until 195 Israel was was on its feet to
be able to help its own citizens so the
fact that Israel has attacked something
like onor for all these years and
demonized Ona just because six of its
members six out of 13,000 have been
accused of joining in the with the
October 7 attack seven of 13,000 as a
good number of observers said they're
surprised that there are six not 600 or
6,000 right because Liv living in Gaza
being involved and all that I think a
lot of people were curious to just to
barge through the borders and see what
Happ is happening on the other side but
be that as it may Israel has been
trigger happy using Force using violence
using bombs and the United States has
been trigger happy trigger ready to
provide it with the weapons and that's
why Kirby blinkin Biden and others have
been defending Israel because they are
complicit just the last few days the
United States has uh once again uh uh
declared that it will be selling more
weapons it will be transferring more
arms to Israel
including 2,000 pound bombs again 2,000
PB bombs for what exactly for what use
in Gaza so I I I I am I am disheartened
by what happened to the aid workers uh
in Gaza but I'm just as disheartened and
even more for the 40,000 perhaps now
that have been killed in Gaza mostly
women and children and for all the um
medical workers Palestinian medical
workers today we were we heard some
reports from shifa hospital deliberate
or not deliberate all all all hospitals
in Gaza perhaps half of one in Rafa
they're all all destroyed I think there
is a systematic use of violence there is
a Readiness to use violence and force
and excessive force hyper use of force
in
Gaza alzir senior political analyst
Maran bishara thank you very much for
that we're going to take a very short
break we'll be